# Getting Started with Entota™

You can implement information governance using Entota™ following one of
these methods:

  - [Strategic (Top-Down) Approach](#Strategi)
  - [Rule-Based (Bottom-Up) Approach](#Rule-Bas)
  - [Critical Data Element (CDE) Approach](#Critical)

## Strategic (Top-Down) Approach

With the top-down approach, begin by identifying the organization’s
[strategy](Strategy.md) - in terms of its vision, mission, goals, and
initiatives. When IT and the business staff can effectively communicate
strategy across boundaries, the entire enterprise can begin to leverage
data as a corporate asset. As you document the organization’s strategy,
begin building [relationships](Relationships.md) to the organization’s
critical assets. The defining of critical assets then contributes to the
creation of a [business glossary](Set%20Up%20Terms.md), [data
catalog](Data%20Catalog.md), and a comprehensive set of business
[policies](Set%20Up%20Policies.md) and enforceable
[rules](Set%20Up%20Rules.md). In essence, the top-down approach starts
with the “big picture” and trickles down to the fine details. This
approach is useful in answering the questions “Why are we doing this?”
and “How does this fit in our budget?”

This approach is recommended for governance teams with business
stakeholder involvement from the get-go. It’s critical that the business
strategy is documented as perceived enterprise-wide. Teams with doubts
surrounding the enterprise’s strategy should consider deferring this
effort to a later phase of implementation.

## Rule-Based (Bottom-Up) Approach

When there’s an existing data quality, MDM, or other data management
effort in place, organizations can initiate governance by documenting
the [rules](Set%20Up%20Rules.md) applied to specific [data
sets](Set%20Up%20a%20Data%20Set.md) in Entota™, centrify the
[systems](Set%20Up%20a%20System.md) where those data sets come from,
the business [policies](Set%20Up%20Policies.md) that necessitate the
[rules](Set%20Up%20Rules.md), and the [terms](Set%20Up%20Terms.md)
that must be understood to understand the implications of each asset.
Typically a collection of business policies also reveals
[initiatives](Add%20Initiatives.md) and [goals](Add%20Goals.md) set at
the enterprise and program levels.

If the governance effort is initiated by the IT team, it’s usually
easier to begin where there are existing data management efforts - which
is typically at the enforcement stage. This approach is best suited for
customers already using BackOffice solutions such as dspMonitor™,
dspConduct™, or other enforcement technologies.

## Critical Assets Approach

A problem that many of our customers face is that governance is left
solely to IT - the business staff aren’t interested in getting involved.
This approach focuses on assets which are central to business operations
or reporting - we call these “critical assets”. We document the
[systems](Set%20Up%20a%20System.md) and [data
sets](Set%20Up%20a%20Data%20Set.md) containing these assets, assign
each asset a business [definition](Set%20Up%20Terms.md), and then
document governing [policies](Set%20Up%20Policies.md) and
[rules](Set%20Up%20Rules.md). This enables IT to show value in the
governance program while educating the business staff on the processes
and technology involved.

This approach is great for governance teams still in the initial phase
of information management and governance. It can provide quick value in
a relatively short time frame which is sometimes crucial for maintaining
a governance project.

No entry point to the Entota™ is better than another - it all depends on
the organization’s maturity level and specific data governance
environment. Each Entota™ customer has a designated Customer Success
Manager who can help guide you, whichever approach you choose, and
provide further expertise on implementations. To learn more about the
Entota™ customer success program, please contact
<customersuccess@boaweb.com>.
